Add troubleshooting and workaround details of VM IP address missing (#863)
harvester/docs: docs/troubleshooting/vm.md

The IP address field of the Virtual Machines screen on the Harvester UI is not displayed whenever VM pod interface named podxxxx acquires a IPv6 link local address.

#### Analysis

Qemu guest agent is responsible for notifying the interface details and guest os info from the vm guest os to the Virtual Machine Instance which is displayed to the Harvester UI.
During the issue, the VM pod interface gets a IPv6 link local address and if this address is updated to the Virtual Machine Instance first, then IPv4 address from qemu guest agent will not be
updated to the Virtual Machine Instance due to an upstream kubevirt bug.You can check the ip address of the interface using the following output which will only display the ipv6 link local
address.Harvester UI filters out only IPv4 address and displays nothing on the screen in this case.

```shell
$ kubectl get vmi -n <NAMESPACE> <NAME> -ojsonpath='{.status.interfaces[0].ipAddress}'
```

Check the ip address on the pod interface named podxxxx of the VM created using the following command which matches the ipv6 address updated in the Virtual Machine Instance.

```shell
$ kubectl exec -it -n <PODNAMESPACE> <PODNAME> -- /bin/bash

> $ ip a

Author: True, but sometimes what I have observed is, the users are clueless about the ipv6 address they are seeing in the vmi status output.This will help them understand that this is a link local ipv6 automatically assigned to pod interface which is reflected to the vmi status.

:::info

Generally, this is a UI issue with no impact on the virtual machine operation and uptime. The virtual machine is still accessible via SSH.
To get the IPv4 address assigned to the VM from guest OS, `Open in Serial Console` next to the VM in Harvester UI and execute `ip a` inside the guest OS.

However, there are cases where this issue may affect integration with Rancher, where the provisioning and joining of the nodes in the guest cluster times out.

:::

#### Workaround

The workaround is to disable ipv6 in the kernel parameters of Harvester using the following.
https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.6/troubleshooting/os/#how-to-permanently-edit-kernel-parameters

In the above example, add `ipv6.disable=1` and reboot the nodes to prevent VM pod interfaces from acquiring a link local IPv6 address.

#### Related Issue

https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/6955

https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/issues/12697

> ### Virtual Machine IP Address Not Displayed Intermittently
> 
> #### Description
> 
> The IP address of the newly created virtual machines disappear and appear intermittently at regular intervals on the Harvester UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Virtual Machine IP Address Intermittently Not Displayed

#### Description

The IP address of new virtual machines intermittently disappears and reappears on the Harvester UI.
```

#### Analysis

> QEMU guest agent is responsible for reporting the interface details and guest OS information from the vm guest OS to the Virtual Machine Instance which is displayed by the Harvester UI.
> This issue happens when the virtual machine instance is updated with domain data containing empty network interfaces due to an upstream KubeVirt issue.
> 
> This is more commonly seen in Alma Linux 9 and Rocky Linux 9 where there are frequent file system information updates from `qemu-ga` in respond to polling threads from the `virt-launcher` pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The QEMU guest agent is responsible for reporting information about the guest operating system, including interface details, to the virtual machine instance for displaying on the Harvester UI. The issue occurs when the virtual machine instance is updated with domain data that contain empty network interfaces, which is caused by an upstream KubeVirt issue.

This behavior is more commonly observed in Alma Linux 9 and Rocky Linux 9, wherein the QEMU guest agent frequently updates file system information in response to polling threads from the `virt-launcher` pod.
```

This happens whenever there are frequent updates from qemu-ga on any of the guest commands polled from virt-launcher.This is seen with alma-linux/rocky linux guest OSs in particular because there are frequent changes in the information shared

> from qemu-ga of alma-linux especially the file system info.This issue is possible on any vm guest os which will have frequent updates from qemu-ga to the virt-launcher during the polling thread.

Reviewer 2: This might no longer be needed since line 516 already summarized the issue.

Reviewer: Agree. Please remove these lines.

> To reproduce the issue, execute the following command and the output of the ipAddress field will be empty intermittently.
> 
> ```shell
> $ kubectl get vmi -n <NAMESPACE> <NAME> -ojsonpath='{.status.interfaces[0].ipAddress}'
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To check if the issue exists in your environment, run the following command at different times:

```shell
$ kubectl get vmi -n <NAMESPACE> <NAME> -ojsonpath='{.status.interfaces[0].ipAddress}'
```

The `ipAddress` field may be empty when you run the command.
````

> :::info
> 
> The issue does not impact the operation and uptime of the virtual machine. Users can still SSH into the VM using the IPv4 address assigned to the VM’s network interface within the guest OS.
> To get the IPv4 address assigned to the VM from guest OS, `Open in Serial Console` next to the VM in Harvester UI and execute `ip a` inside the guest OS.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve the assigned IPv4 address, open the virtual machine's serial console and run `ip a` inside the guest operating system.

:::note

This issue generally does not affect the virtual machine's operations and uptime. You can still access the virtual machine using SSH and its network interface's IPv4 address.

:::
```

> #### Workaround
> 
> There is no workaround for this issue.But the following upstream fix has optimized the code to avoid unnecessary updates from qemu guest agent which could possibly avoid happening of this issue.
> https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/pull/13624
> 
> #### Related Issue
> 
> https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3990
> 
> https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/issues/12698

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Workaround

While no direct workaround is available for this issue, an [upstream fix](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/pull/13624) has optimized the code to reduce unnecessary updates from the QEMU guest agent. This enhancement may prevent the issue from occurring.

#### Related Issues

[#3990](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3990) and [#12698](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/issues/12698)
```

https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/6644

## Virtual Machine IP Address Flapping

### Issue Description

> The IP address field of the Virtual Machines screen on the Harvester UI flaps for a newly created Virtual Machine.

Author: Sure I have rephrased the sentence of "flapping" and the VM is still usable and reachable.I have added an info section for this.

This problem is due to an upstream kubevirt issue occuring spcifically on alma linux 9 and rocky linux 9 guest os version.

This happens whenever there are frequent updates from qemu-ga on any of the guest commands polled from virt-launcher.This is seen with alma-linux/rocky linux guest OSs in particular because there are frequent changes in the information shared
from qemu-ga of alma-linux especially the file system info.This issue is possible on any vm guest os which will have frequent updates from qemu-ga to the virt-launcher during the polling thread.

To reproduce the issue, execute the following command and the output of the ipAddress field will be empty intermittently.

```shell
$ kubectl get vmi -n <NAMESPACE> <NAME> -ojsonpath='{.status.interfaces[0].ipAddress}'
```

### Workaround

There is no workaround for this issue.But the following upstream fix has optimized the code to avoid unnecessary updates from qemu guest agent which could possibly avoid happening of this issue.
https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/pull/13624

### Related Issue

https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/3990

https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/issues/12698

> ## Virtual Machine IP Address not displayed when VM Pod Interface has IPv6 address

Author: case 1: ip address missing due to qemu-ga not installed
case 2: ip address missing due to ipv6 address
case 3: ip address missing intermittently.
I think it is good to combine case 1 and 2, but case 3 is different as it disappears and appears at regular intervals.In all these cases the VM is usable and reachable.

Regarding the case with Ubuntu Noble cloud image, personally I have not seen this or reported by any customer, if you have enough info, can you please share it with me, I can add to the doc, or you can add those details later once I merge this, whichever works for you.

### Issue Description

The IP address field of the Virtual Machines screen on the Harvester UI is not displayed when VM pod interface acquires a IPv6 link local address.

## Issue Analysis

Qemu guest agent is responsible for notifying the interface details and guest os info from the vm guest os to the Virtual Machine Instance which is displayed to the Harvester UI.
During the issue, the VM pod interface gets a IPv6 link local address and if this address is updated to the Virtual Machine Instance first, then IPv4 address from qemu guest agent will not be
updated to the Virtual Machine Instance due to an upstream kubevirt bug.You can check the ip address of the interface using the following output which will only display the ipv6 link local 
address.Harvester UI filters out only IPv4 address and displays nothing on the screen in this case.

```shell
$ kubectl get vmi -n <NAMESPACE> <NAME> -ojsonpath='{.status.interfaces[0].ipAddress}'
```

Check the ip address on the pod interface of the VM created using the following command which matches the ipv6 address updated in the Virtual Machine Instance.

```shell
$ kubectl exec -it -n <PODNAMESPACE> <PODNAME> -- /bin/bash
$ ip a

> ```

Reviewer 3: It'd be more user-friendly if we could instruct them to look at which pod interface.

Author: Sure,I have added pod interface named podxxx, please let me know if it would be good to show some example or keep it this way which might be self explanatory.
